Generalizations about categories are central to human understanding and generic language  (e.g., "Birds lay eggs".) communicates these
generalizations. 
Yet, generic sentences present two distinct puzzles for researchers.
First, providing an adequate semantics for generic statements has proved notoriously difficult (Krifka et al. 1995). 
Among the problems for providing such a semantics include the fact that generics allow for exceptions (e.g. only adult, female birds lay eggs). 
Second, no known natural language has a distinct marker of genericity, presenting speakers and listeners with the difficult tasks of encoding and interpreting generic meanings, respectively.

Recent experimental and theoretical work has shed light on these two questions.
On the one hand, Tessler & Goodman (2016) use Rational Speech Act models (RSA; Goodman & Frank, 2016), a type of recursive Bayesian model of pragmatic reasoning, to provide a simple semantics of generic statements that nonetheless captures many of the puzzling phenomena of the truth conditions and interpretations of generic language.
On the other hand, Crone & Frank (2016) examine the contribution of various morphosyntactic features to the interpretation of sentences as generic or non-generic, arguing that generic interpretations arise when listeners cannot ground expressions as referring to particular entities or events.

Here, we unify these two strands of research in an attempt to provide a wholistic pragmatic account of generic meaning for statements with different morphosyntactic features.
We enrich the model of Tessler & Goodman (2016) by introducing uncertainty about the intended meaning: generic vs. non-generic.
This requires relating the semantics of generics (a threshold on property prevalence) to the semantics of non-generics, regarding actual entities in the world, in a single model. 
We aim to formalize the hypothesis that generic interpretation results in a failure for a referring expression to ground out in particular entities or events. 
By doing so, we aim to provide a formal pragmatic account of the patterns described in Crone & Frank (2016).